We assume that we have an implicit definition of an algebraic variety given and we want to find a
rational parameterization for that. There is a recipe for that which sometimes works. We'll see it
in action on the example of the unit circle defined by the equation:

  x^2 + y^2 - 1 = 0
  
That's our implict definition of the variety. What we want to find is a pair of rational functions
x(t), y(t) that parameterize our given variety. 

Our first step is to find some convenient fixed point P on the variety which has rational 
coordinates. We will pick the point 

  P = (0,1) 
  
to be our fixed point. Next, we pick a variable second point Q not assumed to be on the circle. It 
should be chosen conveniently and such that when we connect P and Q by a straight line, this 
(possibly extended) line should intersect our circle in a second point, let's call it R. By 
construction, the line will always intersect (or at least be tangent to) the circle in P. It is this 
second point of intersection R, whose coordinates we want to figure out. It will be some function of
the point Q: R = f(Q). The function f is what we ultimately wante to figure out. The point Q should 
be made variable by our parameter t in such a way that, when t sweeps out some interval of values, 
the second point of intersection Q will sweep out our circle. We will chose the point Q to be a 
point on the x-axis with its x-coordinate being equal to t. That is:

  Q = (t,0)
  
Next, we look at the line that connects P and Q. That line can be given parametrically as:

  L(s) = (1-s)*P + s*Q

where it is important to note that the parameter that parameterizes the line, namely s, is a 
different variable than our eventual parameter t that we wnat to use in our rational 
parameterization (that really confused me initially). Our parametric line can be split into its x-
and y-component:

  x(s) = (1-s)*P_x + s*Q_x = (1-s)*0 + s*t = s*t
  y(s) = (1-s)*P_y + s*Q_y = (1-s)*1 + s*0 = 1-s
  
where we use the notation P = (P_x, P_y), Q = (Q_x, Q_y) for denoting the x- and y-coordinates of 
our points P and Q. Now we want to figure out a value of s, such that the point (x(s), y(s)) 
satisfies our circle equation x^2 + y^2 - 1 = 0. So we plug in the coordinate functions x(s), y(s) 
into the equation:

  0 = (x(s))^2 + (y(s))^2 - 1
  0 = (s*t)^2  + (1-s)^2  - 1  
  0 = s^2*t^2 + 1 - 2*s + s^2 - 1
  0 = s^2*(t^2 + 1) - 2*s
  
From the last line, we can read off that s = 0 satisfies the equation. It would be strange if it 
wouldn't be the case because s = 0 should, by construction, give us back our fixed point P - which 
it indeed dutyfully does. We are interested in the second solution. That should give us the *other*
intersection of our line with the circle - the one we are really interested in. We are allowed to 
divide both sides by s because we now can assume s != 0 because we are interested in an s other than 
zero. That brings us to:

  0 = s*(t^2 + 1) - 2
  s = 2 / (t^2 + 1)
  
which, by plugging that value of s into x(s), y(s), gives:

  x = s*t 
    = (2 / (t^2 + 1)) * t 
    = 2*t / (t^2 + 1)
	
  y = 1-s 
    = 1  -  2 / (t^2 + 1)
	= ((t^2 + 1) / (t^2 + 1))  -  (2 / (t^2 + 1))
	= (t^2 + 1 - 2)  / (t^2 + 1)
    = (t^2 - 1) / (t^2 + 1)
  
which are both functions of our t-parameter which determines our variable point on the x-axis, as
desired. Summarizing, we have arrived at the following rational parameterization of the unit circle:

  ┌──────────────────────────────┐
  │ x(t) = (  2*t  ) / (t^2 + 1) │
  │ y(t) = (t^2 - 1) / (t^2 + 1) │
  └──────────────────────────────┘

It is "rational" in the sense that both coordinate functions are rational functions of the parameter
t. That implies that when we plug in rational numbers for t, the resulting coordinates x(t), y(t) 
will also be rational numbers. In fact, our parameterization generates almost all rational points on
the unit circle when t sweeps from minus infinity to plus infinity. The only missing point is our 
original fixed point P = (0,1). This is the edge case for when the line approaches tangency when t
approaches plus or minus infinity. In this case, the second point of intersection Q approaches our 
fixed first point of intersection P.

  
  
  




----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ToDo:

- Use the same method to find a rational parameterization of an ellipsoid. 
  - Use the equation: (x/a)^2 + (y/b)^2 + (z/c)^2 - 1 = 0
  - Use the same ansatz with the line: L(t) = (1-s)*P + s*Q